---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/worldbuilding/scastant/stories/scastant-stories/stranger-in-the-blizzard/","created":"2026-01-03T12:42:18.571+01:00","updated":"2026-01-16T13:24:51.911+01:00"}
---

	It was dark out. The wind was beating on the windows of the tavern, and the snow was pouring down from on high, as it seemed to have done since anyone could remember. The tavern was usually very lively and filled with chatter. But for the past few days, the infrequent inn-goers still present were oddly silent, their gaze blank, almost hollow. The air was heavy with a sort of anxious dread.`
	Outside, a tall, dark figure stood in the cold, braving the harsh winter blizzard, looking towards the lit windows of the silent tavern. They could not see him, of course, through the thick fog created by the storm, but he could. He had spent weeks travelling in the ever lasting cold, with nothing but torn hags, and his old crooked willow cane. His face was hidden by his dark hood, eyes shining with a pale blue light in the night. 
	“I’m so sorry”, he muttered low, the sound of his coarse speech quickly drowning in the hurling wind all around him. He stayed still for a while longer, before turning away and disappearing into the night. 

	He didn’t know where to go, so he went further north, further into the blinding snow. Hours turned into days, days into weeks, and during his trek he never stopped, walking slowly against the squalls of wind. On his way he passed many ruins, seemingly embedded deep in layers of snow, but at the same time seeming oddly new. He soon arrived in the once sprawling city of Necrosurb, now utterly destroyed and devoid of any life. The capital was unrecognisable, and in a deep state of disrepair, the only remains being the solid stone foundations. All that now remained were the souls of the dead, who were suddenly swept away. 
	Quickly, the stranger felt their presence gather around him, pushing him out. They knew what he had done. The man felt deep sorrow for this city’s inhabitants, people he once knew and loved dearly, reduced to a state of almost nothingness. He left his hometown with a heavy heart, and continued his journey north, feeling lonelier than ever. 
	After some time, he reached a small cliff, overlooking a large frozen lake, stretching far beyond what the fog revealed. The wandering man almost fell over, only realising when his foot could not feel land under itself anymore. He had to go around, following the edge of the land, until, soon enough, he reached the lake. The man struggled to stay upright as he tried to cross the lake, his weight putting pressure on the fragile ice. Finally, he got to the other side after what seemed hours on the treacherous lake, and was met with a similar cliff, though smaller in size. In it was carved an opening, which seemed to sink steadily into the earth. The tired stranger approached slowly, desperate for some respite from the blizzard, and entered the opening decidedly. 

	As he went deeper into the unknown opening, the darkness envelopped him from every side and muffled every sound, until he could not see in front of him, or hear the outside storm any longer. But he kept going, pressing his hand against the icy walls of the cave, burning him. On he went, until he stumbled on something, and fell. The ground had suddenly opened beneath his feet, and he was falling, hurting himself on the sharp edges of the pit, the sounds echoing through the cave. After a few long minutes, the walls opened up to a much larger cavern, and the man finally hit the ground, losing consciousness. He woke up some days later, taking some time to find his broken cane, and taking in his surroundings.
	He was near the edge of an enormous cavern, nearly 30 meters high, with no signs of possible escape. The walls and ceiling were laden with hundreds of glowing crystals of ice of different sizes, bringing a pale light to the place and ethereal noise from the resonating crystals. 
	Finally, after all that time wandering and pondering his actions, the hooded figure felt at peace with himself, knowing the rest of his existence would be spent in this cavern, far away from any other being, unable to hurt anyone else ever again. He swore he would never try to repair his wretched cane, that he had come to love so much during his trying journey. He gave up on Magic altogether, though the effects of his actions could ultimately not be undone. And for that, he never forgave himself.